## Vocabulary

cigar 雪茄



Satellite 卫星

at this stage, 在这个阶段

Salinity the quality or degree of being saline.

Saline containing or impregnated with salt.



Onshore



Meteorological stations 气象站

ozone depletion

prevailing

yachtsmen

fisheries legislation



fishing practices

Agricultural 

best yield from the available rainfall.





## Questions

 So（答案引出题)



21. 

**题目定位：**Robotic Float Project, float, shaped like

**空格预判：**根据a可知填写名词单数

**答案解析：**
**SIMON：**
Well, first of all we'll look at what a robotic float（定位词） does and its use. So（答案引出题） let's start with the device itself. It looks a bit like（=shaped like）a（定位词） cigar（Q21 答案词） and it's about one and a half metres long.



22.

**答案解析：**
**SIMON：**
That's quite true but this project is a really good example of international co-operation. Over the last five years（=so far） scientists（定位词） from thirteen countries（Q22 答案词） have been taking part in（=worked on）the project（定位词） and launching floats in their area of ocean control.



23.

**题目定位：**Float, dropped, ocean, satellite 

**空格预判：**动词，与dropped短语并列所以词性一致

**答案解析：**
**SIMON：**
The operational cycle goes like this. Each of the floats（定位词）is dropped（定位词） in the ocean（定位词） from a boat at a set point and （并列关系）activated（Q23 答案词） from a satellite（定位词）.



24.

**题目定位：**average, distance

**空格预判：**根据distance travelled可知填写数字，表示距离

**答案解析：**
**SIMON：**
It stays at this depth for about 10 days and is carried around by the currents which operate in the ocean at this level. During this time it's possible for it to cover quite large distances（定位词）but the average（定位词） is fifty kilometres（Q24 答案词）.



25. 

**题目定位：**Float, changes, salinity

**空格预判：**名词，与空格前salinity并列

**答案解析：**
**STUDENT 2：**So what is it actually recording（定位词）?
**SIMON：**Well at this stage nothing, but as it rises to the surface it collects all sorts of data, most importantly variations in salinity（定位词）, that's salt levels, and（并列关系） the changes（定位词）in temperature（Q25 答案词）, a bit like underwater weather balloons



26.

**题目定位：**El Nino

**答案解析：**
**SIMON：**Some of the data has already helped in completing projects. For example, our understanding of the underlying causes of El Nino (定位词）events is being confirmed（现在进行时= 选项A at present）by float data. 



27.

**题目定位：**climate change 

**答案解析：**
**SIMON：**Another way we're using float data is to help us to understand the mechanics of climate change（定位词）, like global warming and ozone depletion. That's part of an ongoing variability study but the results are still a long way off（=选项C long-term）.



28. 

**题目定位：**naval rescues

**答案解析：**
However, this is not the case with our ocean weather forecasting. Because we know from the floats what the prevailing weather conditions will be in certain parts of the ocean, we can advise the navy（=naval定位词） on search and rescue（定位词） missions. That's happening right now （=选项A at present）and many yachtsmen owe their lives to the success of this project.

29.

**题目定位：**sustainable fishing practices

**答案解析：**
**STUDENT I：**Would that help with preserving fish (定位词）stocks?
**SIMON：**Yes, and advising governments on fisheries legislation. We're well on the way to completing a project on this. We hope it will help to bring about more sustainable fishing practices（定位词）. We'll be seeing the results of that quite soon（=选项B near future）.



30.

**题目定位：**crop selection

**答案解析：**
**SIMON：**Yes it does. It's also a powerful agricultural（引出crop） tool. If we were aware of what the weather would be like, say, next year, we could make sure that the farmers planted appropriate grain（=crop）varieties to produce the best yield from the available rainfall.
**SIMON：**I agree that this concept is still a long way（=选项C long-term） in the future, but it will come eventually and the float data will have made a contribution.



## Keyword table

| Keywords in questions | Similar words in the passage             |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| shaped like           | looks a bit like                         |
| so far                | last five years                          |
| worked on             | Have been taking part in                 |
| long-term             | but the results are still a long way off |
| naval                 | the navy                                 |
| A at present          | That's happening right now               |
| near future           | quite soon                               |
| long-term             | a long way                               |
| crop                  | grain                                    |
|                       |                                          |

