

The given chart shows the percentage of households in owned and rented accommodation in England and Wales from the year 1918 to 2011.

Overall, there was significantly more rented accommodation than owned ones in England and Wales before 1971, and the trend reversed after 1971. In the year 1971, the percentage of owned households equaled that of rented households.

Before 1971, the percentage of owned accommodation steadily increased from a little above 20% in the year 1918 to over 40% in the year 1961. By contrast, the percentage of rented accommodation steadily decreased from 1918 to 1961, thereby reducing the gap between the percentage of owned and rented accommodation. At first, the percentage of rented households steadily decreased from 1918 to 1961, thereby reducing the gap between the percentage of owned and rented accommodation. At first, the percentage of rented accommodation was about triple that of the owned ones, reaching nearly 80% while owned accommodation was at a little over 20%. By 1961, the percentage of rented households was a little less than 60%, while that of owned households reached 40%.

After 1971, the percentage of owned households increased slightly until 2011 when it saw a small decrease again. The trend for rented households was the exact opposite.
The percentage of rented households started to decrease in 1981 and only in 2011 saw a slight increase. The percentage of rented households never exceeded 40% after 1971, whilst that for owned households never exceeded 70%.



## Vocabulary

 **thereby**   by that means; as a result of that.

**Overall**  taking everything into account.  Adv:  in all parts; taken as a whole.

**By contrast** when compared to another

**while**.  Adv: during which.

**Whilst** adv: during which; while.

## Phrases

 **in the year** 1912

**and the trend reversed** **after** 1971

**the percentage of xxxx equaled that of xxxx**

**steadily increased from a little above** 20% in the year 1918 **to** over 40% in the year

**The percentage of** rented accommodation **was about to triple that of** the owned ones

**reaching nearly** 80%

**After** 1971

**To be specific**



*Lay's* most common meaning is "to place (something or someone) down in a flat position." *Lie's* corresponding meaning is "to be in a flat position on a surface." *Lay* is transitive; it requires that the verb have an object; there has to be a thing or person being placed: Lay it down. *Lie*, on the other hand, is intransitive. It's for something or someone moving on their own or something that's already in position: You can lie down there. You can lie there all day.



