## Vocabulary

#### circumscribe

##### verb

1. restrict (something) within limits.

   "their movements were strictly monitored and circumscribed"

2. **GEOMETRY**

   - draw (a figure) around another, touching it at points but not cutting it.

     "if a hexagon is circumscribed about a circle the lines joining opposite vertices meet in one point"



#### lexical

##### *adjective*

1. relating to the words or vocabulary of a language.

   "lexical analysis"

   - relating to or of the nature of a lexicon or dictionary.

     "a lexical entry"

#### heyday

##### *noun*

1. the period of a person's or thing's greatest success, popularity, or vigor.

   "the paper has lost millions of readers since its heyday in 1964"

#### vigor

##### noun

1. physical strength and good health.

   "I was 79, but still full of vigor and vitality"

   - effort, energy, and enthusiasm.

     "they set about the new task with vigor"

#### common sense 

##### *noun*

1. the ability to think and behave in a reasonable way and to make good decisions.

   "a common-sense approach"

#### intensely

##### Adverb

1. 
   with extreme force or strength.

   "the fire was burning intensely"

2. to an extreme degree.

   "everything mattered intensely to William"

#### academy

##### *noun*

1. a place of study or training in a special field.

   "a police academy"

2. a society or institution of distinguished scholars and artists or scientists that aims to promote and maintain standards in its particular field.

   "the National Academy of Sciences"

#### settle

##### *verb*

1. resolve or reach an agreement about (an argument or problem).

   "every effort was made to settle the dispute"

2. pay (a debt or account).

   "his bill was settled by charge card"

3. adopt a more steady or secure style of life, especially in a permanent job and home.

   "one day I will **settle down** and raise a family"

4. sit or come to rest in a comfortable position.

#### biographer

##### *noun*

1. a person who writes an account of someone's life.

   "an important biographer of contemporary artists"

#### station

##### noun

1. a regular stopping place on a public transportation route, especially one on a railroad line with a platform and often one or more buildings.
2. a place or building where a specified activity or service is based.

##### verb

1. put in or assign to a specified place for a particular purpose, especially a military one.

   "troops **were stationed in** the town"

#### rickety

##### adjective

1. (of a structure or piece of equipment) poorly made and likely to collapse.

   "we went carefully up the rickety stairs"

2. (of a person) suffering from rickets.

   "poverty was evident in undernourished faces or rickety legs"

#### Synthesis

##### Noun

1. the combination of ideas to form a theory or system.

   "the synthesis of intellect and emotion in his work"

2. the production of chemical compounds by reaction from simpler materials.

   "the synthesis of methanol from carbon monoxide and hydrogen"

#### shade

##### noun

1. comparative darkness and coolness caused by shelter from direct sunlight.
2. "sitting in the shade"
3. a color, especially with regard to how light or dark it is or as distinguished from one nearly like it.
4. "various shades of blue"

##### verb

1. screen from direct light.

   "she shaded her eyes against the sun"

2. darken or color (an illustration or diagram) with parallel pencil lines or a block of color.

   "she **shaded in** the outline of a chimney"

3. a slight amount of something.

   "there is **a shade of** wistfulness in his rejection"

４.　**a slightly differing variety of something.**

​        "politicians of all shades of opinion"

#### rival

##### noun

1. a person or thing competing with another for the same objective or for superiority in the same field of activity.

2. be or seem to be equal or comparable to.

   "he was a photographer whose fame **rivaled that of** his subjects"

#### vicissitude

##### *noun*

1. a change of circumstances or fortune, typically one that is unwelcome or unpleasant.

   "her husband's sharp vicissitudes of fortune"

2. **LITERARY**

   - alternation between opposite or contrasting things.

     "the vicissitude of the seasons"

#### perpetual

##### adjective

1. never ending or changing.

   "deep caves in perpetual darkness"

2. occurring repeatedly; so frequent as to seem endless and uninterrupted.

   "their perpetual money worries"

#### patronage

##### *noun*

1. the support given by a patron.

   "the arts could no longer depend on private patronage"

2. the power to control appointments to office or the right to privileges.

   "recruits are selected on merit, not through political patronage"

3. a patronizing or condescending manner.

   "a twang of self-satisfaction—even patronage—about him"

4. the regular business given to a store, restaurant, or public service by a person or group.

   "the direct train link was ending because of poor patronage"

#### obscurities

##### noun

1. the state of being unknown, inconspicuous, or unimportant.

   "he is too good a player to slide into obscurity"

   - a thing that is unclear or difficult to understand.

     "the obscurities in his poems and plays"

#### bower

##### noun

1. a pleasant shady place under trees or climbing plants in a garden or wood.

##### verb

**LITERARY**

1. shade or enclose (a place or person).

   "trees here and there bowered the cottages"

#### orthography

##### *noun*

1. the conventional spelling system of a language.
2. "a spoken language which has as yet no sanctioned orthography"

#### analogy

##### noun

1. a comparison between two things, typically for the purpose of explanation or clarification.

   "an **analogy between** the workings of nature and those of human societies"

2. a correspondence or partial similarity.

   "the syndrome is called deep dysgraphia because of its **analogy to** deep dyslexia"

3. a thing which is comparable to something else in significant respects.

   "works of art were seen as an analogy for works of nature"

#### ascertaining

##### *verb*

1. find (something) out for certain; make sure of.

   "an attempt to ascertain the cause of the accident"

#### cornerstone

##### *noun*

1. an important quality or feature on which a particular thing depends or is based.

   "a national minimum wage remained the cornerstone of policy"

2. a stone that forms the base of a corner of a building, joining two walls.


#### confer

##### *verb*

1. grant or bestow (a title, degree, benefit, or right).

   "moves were made to **confer** an honorary degree **on** her"

2. have discussions; exchange opinions.

   "the officials were **conferring with** allies"


#### folklore

1. the traditional beliefs, customs, and stories of a community, passed through the generations by word of mouth.
   - a body of popular myth and beliefs relating to a particular place, activity, or group of people.
   - "Hollywood folklore"

## phrases

single-handed

#####  set up

1. place or erect something in position.

   "police set up a roadblock on Tenth Street"

2. establish a business, institution, or other organization.

   "she set up the business with a $4,000 bank loan"

law-according 

two-volume 

Take on





## Keyword Table



### Question 1- 3

| Keywords in questions                                  | Similar words in the passage                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| It focused mainly on language from contemporary texts. | illustrated their many meanings with some 114,000 quotations drawn from the Elizabethans to his own time |
| There was a time limit for its completion.             | Working to a deadline                                        |
| It took into account subtleties of meaning.            | Johnson treated English very practically, as a living language, with many different shades of meaning |

### Question 4- 7

| Keywords in questions                                        | Similar words in the passage                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| he took on a number of **copying clerks , who stood at a long central desk.** | **with a long desk running down the middle at which the copying clerks would work standing up** |
| Johnson did not have a library available to him              | without a library to hand                                    |
| Johnson's principal achievement was to bring stability to the **English** language. | conferred stability on the **language of his country.**      |
| he was **granted a pension** by the king.                    | King George Ⅲ to **offer him a pension**                     |



### Question 8-13

| Keywords in questions                                        | Similar words in the passage                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| The growing importance of the middle classes led to an increased demand for dictionaries. | not sure: his Dictionary at the very beginning of the heyday of the middle class. |
| Johnson has become more well known since his death.          | Samuel Johnson, the very model of an eighteenth-century literary man, as famous in his own time as in ours （矛盾） |
| Johnson had been planning to write a dictionary for several years. | not given                                                    |
| Johnson set up an academy to help with the writing of his Dictionary. | Johnson decided he did not need an academy to settle arguments about language （矛盾） |
| Johnson only received payment for his Dictionary on its completion. | He was to be paid £ 1,575 in instalments。（矛盾）           |
| Not all of the assistants survived to see the publication of the Dictionary. | He was also helped by six assistants, two of whom died whilst the Dictionary was still in preparation. （可推理） |