## Vocabulary

#### Bakelite

*noun*

1. an early form of brittle plastic, typically dark brown, made from formaldehyde and phenol, used chiefly for electrical equipment.

#### constituent

##### noun

1. a member of a constituency.

2. a component part of something.

   "the essential constituents of the human diet"

#### viscous

##### adjective

1. having a thick, sticky consistency between solid and liquid; having a high viscosity.
2. "viscous lava"

#### impetus

##### noun

plural noun: **impetuses**

1. the force or energy with which a body moves.

   "hit the booster coil before the flywheel loses all its impetus"

2. the force that makes something happen or happen more quickly.

   "the crisis of the 1860s provided the original **impetus for** the settlements"

#### dwindling

##### adjective

1. gradually diminishing in size, amount, or strength.

   "dwindling resources"

#### amass

##### verb

1. gather together or accumulate (a large amount or number of valuable material or things) over a period of time.

   "starting from nothing he had amassed a huge fortune"

#### preparation

##### noun

1. the action or process of making ready or being made ready for use or consideration.

   "the preparation of a draft contract"

   1. something done to get ready for an event or undertaking.

      "she continued her **preparations for** the party"

   2. a substance that is specially made up and usually sold, especially a medicine or food.

#### outline

#### verb

1. draw, trace, or define the outer edge or shape of (something).

   "her large eyes were darkly outlined with eyeliner"

2. give a summary of (something).

   "she outlined the case briefly"

#### malleable

##### *adjective*

1. (of a metal or other material) able to be hammered or pressed permanently out of shape without breaking or cracking.

   "a malleable metal can be beaten into a sheet"

2. easily influenced; pliable.

   "Anna was shaken enough to be malleable"



#### soluble

##### *adjective*

1. (of a substance) able to be dissolved, especially in water.

   "the poison is **soluble in** alcohol"

2. (of a problem) able to be solved.

   "there have been periods when crime and disorder seemed soluble problems"


#### shallow

##### *adjective*

1. of little depth.

   "serve the noodles in a shallow bowl"

##### *noun*

​	1. an area of the sea, a lake, or a river where the water is not very deep.

##### *verb*

1. (of the sea, a lake, or a river) become less deep over time or in a particular place.
2. "the boat ground to a halt where the water shallowed"

#### powder

##### *noun*

1. fine, dry particles produced by the grinding, crushing, or disintegration of a solid substance.

   "crush the poppy seeds to a powder"

2. light, dry, newly fallen snow.

   "in Aspen, blue skies and good powder drew in record numbers"

##### *verb*

1. apply powder to (the face or body).

   "she powdered her face and put on a dab of perfume"

2. reduce (a substance) to a powder by drying or crushing it.

   "then the rose petals are dried and powdered"

#### filler

##### *noun*

1. a thing put in a space or container to fill it.

   "these plants are attractive gap-fillers or ground cover"

2. a person or thing that fills a space or container.

   "supermarket shelf-fillers"

#### woodflour

##### noun

1.  **finely powdered wood or sawdust used chiefly as an adsorbent in dynamite and as a filler in plastics and linoleum**.

#### asbestos

##### noun

1. a heat-resistant fibrous silicate mineral that can be woven into fabrics, and is used in fire-resistant and insulating materials such as brake linings.

#### catalyst

##### noun

1. a substance that increases the rate of a chemical reaction without itself undergoing any permanent chemical change.

   "chlorine acts as a catalyst promoting the breakdown of ozone"

   - a person or thing that precipitates an event.

     "the governor's speech acted as a catalyst for debate"

#### granular

##### *adjective*

1. resembling or consisting of small grains or particles.

2. Technical:

   - characterized by a high level of granularity.

      "a granular database"

#### manufactured

##### Adjectives

1. produced on a large scale using machinery.

   "manufactured consumer goods"

2. (of evidence or a story) invented; fabricated.

   "manufactured claims that were discredited"

##### verb

1. make (something) on a large scale using machinery.

2. - (of a living thing) produce (a substance) naturally.
   - make or produce (something abstract) in a merely mechanical way.

3. invent or fabricate (evidence or a story).


#### hollow

##### *adjective*

1. having a hole or empty space inside.

2. without significance.

   "the result was a hollow victory"

##### *noun*

1. a hole or depression in something.

   "a hollow at the base of a large tree"

##### *verb*

1. form by making a hole.
2. "a tunnel was **hollowed out** in a mountain range"

#### thereby

##### adverb

1. by that means; as a result of that.

   "students perform in hospitals, thereby gaining a deeper awareness of the therapeutic power of music"

#### taper

##### *verb*

1. diminish or reduce in thickness toward one end.

   "the tail tapers to a rounded tip"

##### noun

1. a slender candle.

2. a gradual narrowing.

   "the current industry standard taper of 5 degrees"

#### disdain

##### *noun*

1. the feeling that someone or something is unworthy of one's consideration or respect; contempt.

   "her upper lip curled in disdain"

##### *verb*

1. consider to be unworthy of one's consideration.

   "gamblers disdain four-horse races"

#### sterillisable

##### adjective

1. Able to be sterilized, **able to go through sterilization**.

#### sterilized

##### *adjective*

1. made free from bacteria or other living microorganisms.

​        "sterilized jars"

2. (of a person or animal) deprived of the ability to produce offspring, typically by removing or blocking the sex organs.

​         "sterilized pets are often easier to train"

#### insulate

##### *verb*

1. protect (something) by interposing material that prevents the loss of heat or the intrusion of sound.
2. "the room was heavily **insulated against** all outside noise"

#### relish

##### verb

1. enjoy greatly.

   "he was relishing his moment of glory"

2. **ARCHAIC** (old fashion)

   - make pleasant to the taste; add relish to.

     "I have also a novel to relish my wine"


#### Drab

##### *adjective*

1. lacking brightness or interest; drearily dull.

   "the landscape was drab and gray"

2. of a dull light brown color.

   "drab camouflage uniforms"

##### noun

1. fabric of a dull brownish color.

#### innovative

##### *adjective*

1. (of a product, idea, etc.) featuring new methods; advanced and original.
2. "innovative designs"
3. (of a person) introducing new ideas; original and creative in thinking.
4. "an innovative thinker"



## phrases



semi-synthetic

three-stage

egg-shaped 

Non-porpous

heat-resistant

germ-free

pre-plastic

unparalleled popularity 

go on

## keyword table

#### Question 1-3

| Keywords in questions                                        | Similar words in the passage                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Some plastics behave in a similar way to **candlewax** in that they melt under heat and can be moulded into new forms. | like **candlewax**, they melt when heated and can then be reshaped |
| Bakelite was unique because it was the first material to be both entirely **synthetic** in origin | Bakelite had the distinction of being the first totally synthetic thermosetting plastic. |
| in the field of **chemistry**                                | in the domain of **chemistry**                               |

#### Question 4-8

| Keywords in questions               | Similar words in the passage                    |
| ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| Called **Novalak**                  | The result was a resin known as **Novalak**     |
| **Fillers**(e.g. cotton, asbestos)  | fillers, such as woodflour, asbestos or cotton  |
| Ammonia, formaldehyde **hex**       | **hexa** a compound of ammonia and formaldehyde |
| **raw** bakelite                    | **raw** bakelite                                |
| apply intense heat and **pressure** | subjected to extreme heat and **pressure**      |

#### Question 9-10

| Keywords in questions                                        | Similar words in the passage                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| the ease with which the resin could fill the mould           | Moulds had to be carefully designed so that the molten bakelite would flow evenly and completely into the mould |
| the facility with which the object could be removed from the mould | The object could not be designed so that it was locked into the mould and therefore difficult to extract. |

#### **Question 9-10**

| Keywords in questions                                        | Similar words in the passage                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| A Modern-day plastic preparation is based on the same principles as that patented in 1907. | On 13 July 1907, Baekeland took out his famous patent describing this preparation, the essential features of which are still in use today. |
| Bakelite was immediately welcomed as a practical and versatile material. | Baekeland's invention, although treated with disdain in its early years, went on to enjoy an unparalleled popularity |
| Bakelite was only available in a limited range of colours.   | no longer restricted to the wood tones and drab browns of the preplastic era. |