## Vocabulary	

#### Crusade

#### eccentric

***adjective***

1. (of a person or their behavior) unconventional and slightly strange.

   "my favorite aunt is very eccentric"

2. (of a thing) not placed centrally or not having its axis or other part placed centrally.

   "a servo driving an eccentric cam"

##### *noun*

1. a person of unconventional and slightly strange views or behavior.

   "he enjoys a colorful reputation as an engaging eccentric"

2. a disc or wheel mounted eccentrically on a revolving shaft in order to transform rotation into backward-and-forward motion, e.g. a cam in an internal combustion engine.

   "he enjoys a colorful reputation as an engaging eccentric"

3. a disc or wheel mounted eccentrically on a revolving shaft in order to transform rotation into backward-and-forward motion, e.g. a cam in an internal combustion engine.

#### Prodigies

plural noun: **prodigies**

1. a person, especially a young one, endowed with exceptional qualities or abilities.

​       "a Russian pianist who was a child prodigy in his day"

2. an impressive or outstanding example of a particular quality.

"Germany seemed **a prodigy of** industrial discipline"

3. an amazing or unusual thing, especially one out of the ordinary course of nature.

"omens and prodigies abound in Livy's work"

#### wiseacre

##### noun

1. a person with an affectation of wisdom or knowledge, regarded with scorn or irritation by others; a know-it-all.

   "the wiseacres forecast a collapse of the building"

#### boffin

##### noun

1. a person engaged in scientific or technical research.

   "a computer boffin"

   - a person with knowledge or a skill considered to be complex, arcane, and difficult.

     "he had a reputation as a tax boffin, a learned lawyer"

#### weakling

##### noun

1. a person or animal that is physically weak and frail.

   "we spend money and effort in rearing every weakling"

   - an ineffectual or cowardly person.

     "this is no place for weakling"

#### paterfamilias

##### noun

1. the male head of a family or household.

   "at the meal, the story of the Passover is told by the paterfamilias"

#### egghead

##### noun

1. "a person who is highly academic or studious; an intellectual."

   "the TV egghead who brought science to the masses"


#### blue-stocking

##### noun

1. an intellectual or literary woman.

   "a Victorian bluestocking"

#### denigration

##### noun

1. the action of unfairly criticizing someone or something.

   "I witnessed the denigration of anyone who failed to toe the line"

#### collate

##### verb

1. collect and combine (texts, information, or sets of figures) in proper order.

   "all the information obtained is being collated"

2. appoint (a member of the clergy) to a benefice.


#### clergy

##### *noun*

1. the body of all people ordained for religious duties, especially in the Christian Church.

   "all marriages were to be solemnized by the clergy"

#### Corporal

##### verb

1. a low-ranking noncommissioned officer in the armed forces, in particular (in the US Army) an NCO ranking above private first class and below sergeant or (in the US Marine Corps) an NCO ranking above lance corporal and below sergeant.
2. 

#### adversity

##### noun

1. difficulties; misfortune.

   "resilience in the face of adversity"

#### anecdotes

##### *noun*

1. a short amusing or interesting story about a real incident or person.

  "told anecdotes about his job"

- an account regarded as unreliable or hearsay.

  "his wife's death has long been the subject of rumor and anecdote"

- the depiction of a minor narrative incident in a painting.

  "the use of inversions of hierarchy, anecdote, and paradox by Magritte, Dali, and others"

#### marvel

##### verb

1. be filled with wonder or astonishment.
2. "she **marveled at** Jeffrey's composure"

##### *noun*

1. a wonderful or astonishing person or thing.

   "the marvels of technology"

##### manifestations

##### *noun*

1. an event, action, or object that clearly shows or embodies something, especially a theory or an abstract idea.

   "the first obvious manifestations of global warming"

2. "the first obvious manifestations of global warming"

   - the action or fact of showing an abstract idea.

     "the manifestation of anxiety over the upcoming exams"

   - a symptom or sign of an ailment.

     "a characteristic manifestation of Lyme disease"

#### commonplace

##### Adjective

1. not unusual; ordinary.

   "unemployment was commonplace in his profession"

##### *noun*

1. a usual or ordinary thing.

   "bombing has become almost a commonplace of public life there"

2. a notable quotation copied into a commonplace book

#### fabrics

##### *noun*

1. cloth or other material produced by weaving or knitting fibers.

   "heavy silk fabric"

2. the walls, floor, and roof of a building.

   "decay and neglect are slowly eating away at the building's fabric"

#### supremacy

##### *noun*

1. the state or condition of being superior to all others in authority, power, or status.

   "the supremacy of the king"

##### outstrip

##### verb

1. move faster than and overtake (someone else).

   "during the morning warm-up, he once again outstripped the field"

2. exceed.

   "supply far outstripped demand"

#### miler

##### noun

1. a person or horse trained specially to run a mile.

#### unpalatable

##### *adjective*

1. not pleasant to taste.

   "scraps of unpalatable food"

2. difficult to tolerate or accept.

   "the unpalatable fact that many of the world's people are starving"

#### infant

##### noun

1. a very young child or baby.

   "healthy infants"

2. denoting something in an early stage of its development.

   "the infant science of bioelectrical medicine"

#### paediatrics

##### noun

1. the branch of medicine dealing with children and their diseases.

#### vantage

##### noun

1. a place or position affording a good view of something.

   "from my vantage point I could see into the front yard"

#### continuum

##### noun

1. a continuous sequence in which adjacent elements are not perceptibly different from each other, although the extremes are quite distinct.

   "at the fast end of the fast-slow continuum"

   **MATHEMATICS**: 

​		the set of real numbers.



#### upbringing

##### noun

1. the treatment and instruction received by a child from its parents throughout its childhood.

   "his Quaker upbringing influenced his character"

#### delude

##### *verb*

1. impose a misleading belief upon (someone); deceive; fool.

   "too many theorists have deluded the public"

#### genius

##### noun

1.  exceptional intellectual or creative power or other natural ability.

   "she was a teacher of genius"

2. a person who is exceptionally intelligent or creative, either generally or in some particular respect.

   "one of the great musical geniuses of the 20th century"

#### ingenious

##### adjective

1. (of a person) clever, original, and inventive.

   "he was ingenious enough to overcome the limited budget"

2. (of a machine or idea) cleverly and originally devised and well suited to its purpose.

#### cult

##### noun

1. a system of religious veneration and devotion directed toward a particular figure or object.

   "the cult of St. Olaf"

   - a relatively small group of people having religious beliefs or practices regarded by others as strange or sinister.

     "a network of Satan-worshiping cults"

   - a misplaced or excessive admiration for a particular person or thing.

     "a **cult of personality** surrounding the leaders"

#### perpetuate

##### verb

1. make (something, typically an undesirable situation or an unfounded belief) continue indefinitely.

   "the law perpetuated the interests of the ruling class"

   - preserve (something valued) from oblivion or extinction.

     "how did these first humans survive to perpetuate the species?"

#### thence

##### adverb

1. from a place or source previously mentioned.

   "they intended to cycle on into France and thence home via Belgium"

   - as a consequence.

     "studying maps to assess past latitudes and thence an indication of climate"

#### gene

##### noun

1. (in informal use) a unit of heredity which is transferred from a parent to offspring and is held to determine some characteristic of the offspring

   "proteins coded directly by genes"

2. (in technical use) a distinct sequence of nucleotides forming part of a chromosome, the order of which determines the order of monomers in a polypeptide or nucleic acid molecule which a cell (or virus) may synthesize.

#### astrology

##### Noun

1. the study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world.

#### ambivalent

##### *adjective*

1. having mixed feelings or contradictory ideas about something or someone.

   "some loved her, some hated her, few were ambivalent about her"

#### mistrust

##### *verb*

1. be suspicious of; have no confidence in.

   "she had no cause to mistrust him"

##### *noun*

1. lack of trust; suspicion.

#### mythology

*noun*

1. a collection of myths, especially one belonging to a particular religious or cultural tradition.

   "a book discussing Jewish and Christian mythologies"

2. the study of myths.

   "this field includes archaeology, comparative mythology, and folklore"

#### impractical

##### *adjective*

1. (of an object or course of action) not adapted for use or action; not sensible or realistic.
2. "impractical high heels"

#### frequency

##### *noun*

1. the rate at which something occurs or is repeated over a particular period of time or in a given sample.

   "shops have closed with increasing frequency during the period"

   - the fact of being frequent or happening often.
   - the ratio of the number of actual to possible occurrences of an event.
   - the (relative) number of times something occurs in a given sample.

2. the rate at which a vibration occurs that constitutes a wave, either in a material (as in sound waves), or in an electromagnetic field (as in radio waves and light), usually measured per second.

   - the particular waveband at which a radio station or other system broadcasts or transmits signals.

#### Mundane 

##### *adjective*

1. lacking interest or excitement; dull.

   "seeking a way out of his mundane, humdrum existence"

2. of this earthly world rather than a heavenly or spiritual one.

   "the boundaries of the mundane world"

#### mediocre

##### *adjective*

1. of only moderate quality; not very good.

   "a mediocre actor"


## Phrases 

1. well-nourished 
2. newly-literate 
3. norm-referenced
4. sub-four-minute
5. single-mindedness
6. hard-won

## to chinese 

Language has been enriched with such terms as 'highbrow', 'egghead', 'blue-stocking', 'wiseacre', 'know-all', 'boffin' and, for many, 'intellectual' is a term of denigration.

因为这些词语，比如，“卖弄知识的人”、“书呆子”、“女才子”、“自认聪明的人”、“自以为无所不知的人”，以及“研究员”，语言都变得丰富了起来，而且对大多数人来说，“知识分子”是一个诋毁的词语。



## Keyword table

###  Q14-18

| Keywords in questions                      | Similar words in the passage                               |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| popularly believed                         | popular beliefs                                            |
| The talents of geniuses are soon exhausted | prodigies burn too brightly too soon and burn out          |
| Genius is inherited                        | that genius runs in families                               |
| People never appreciate true genius        | genius goes unrecognised and unrewarded                    |
| adversity makes men wise                   | Gifted people develop their greatness through difficulties |
| Gifted people should use their gifts       | people with gifts have a responsibility to use them        |

### Q19

**Nineteenth-century studies of the nature of genius failed to take into account the uniqueness of the person's upbringing.** 



keywords: Nineteenth-century studies, uniqueness of the person's upbringing

location : failed to take into account

| Keywords in questions      | Similar words in the passage |
| -------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| Nineteenth-century studies | these studies                |
| uniqueness                 | exceptional                  |

### Q20

**Nineteenth-century studies of genius lacked both objectivity and a proper scientific approach.**



**题目定位：**objectivity, scientific approach

**题目考点：**lacked both 

找到定位信息后需确认在十九世纪的研究里，客观性和适当科学方法是否【都缺乏】

| Keywords in questions | Similar words in the passage                          |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| objectivity           | that studies could be carried out on a more objective |
| scientific approach   | if still not always very scientific, basis.           |

### Q21

**A true genius has general powers capable of excellence in any area.**

**题目定位：**general powers capable of excellence

**题目考点：**in any area

找到定位信息后需确认天才是否在【任何领域】都能有出色的表现



There is still much truth in Dr Samuel Johnson's observation, 'The true genius is a mind of large general powers（出现定位词）真正的天才是具有普遍能力的头脑, accidentally determined to some particular direction'.
原文中所提到的some particular direction，和题干里的“in any area”矛盾，选FALSE。



### Q22

**The skills of ordinary individuals are in essence the same as the skills of prodigies.**



**题目定位：**The skills of ordinary individuals，the skills of prodigies

**题目考点：**in essence the same as



| Keywords in questions              | Similar words in the passage                                 |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| the skills of prodigies            | enjoy or marvel at in the works of genius or the achievements of prodigies |
| scientific approach                | if still not always very scientific, basis.                  |
| the skills of ordinary individuals | are the manifestations of skills or abilities which are similar to, but so much superior to, our own |
| in essence the same as             | But that their minds are not different from our own          |



### Q23

**The ease with which truly great ideas are accepted and taken for granted fails to lessen their significance.**



**题目定位：**truly great ideas are accepted and taken for granted

**题目考点：**fails to lessen their significance
找到定位信息后需确认理所当然地接受伟大的想法是否【并不会】降低其重要性。

| Keywords in questions                                | Similar words in the passage                                 |
| :--------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| truly great ideas are accepted and taken for granted | But that their minds are not different from <br/>our own is demonstrated by  the fact that the hard-won<br/> discoveries of scientists like Kepler or Einstein<br/> become the commonplace knowledge of schoolchildren<br/> and the once outrageous shapes and colours of an artist like <br/>Paul Klee so soon appear on the fabrics we wear. |
| fails to lessen their significance                   | This does not minimise the supremacy of their achievements.  |

### Q24

**Giftedness and genius deserve proper scientific research into their true nature so that all talent may be retained for the human race.**



**题目定位：**proper scientific research, human race

**题目考点：**deserve

找到定位信息后需确认对于天赋和天才是否【值得】进行适当的科学研究

**答案解析：**无

遵循判断题会按照题号顺序出题的原则，在23题的定位段和25题的定位段之间并没有明确找到关于proper scientific research以及retained for the human race的描述，选NOT GIVEN。

### Q26

**To be a genius is worth the high personal cost.**

**题目定位：**high personal cost

**题目考点：**worth
找到定位信息后需确认成为天才是否【值得】付出高昂的个人成本



We may envy their achievements and fame, but we should also recognise the price they may have paid in terms of perseverance, single-mindedness, dedication, restrictions on their personal lives, the demands upon their energies and time, and how often they had to display great courage to preserve their integrity（= high personal cost） or to make their way to the top.他们可能付出的代价是毅力、专心、奉献、对个人生活的限制、对他们的精力和时间的要求，以及他们必须多久表现出极大的勇气来保持他们的正直或走向顶峰。
虽然在原文中可以找到具体high personal cost的替换，但没有关于worth的描述，选NOT GIVEN。